Add PayID Easy Checkout RFC (#37)
payid-org/rfcs: src/spec/payid-easy-checkout.md

be used to complete a payment.

Payment receivers who wish to initiate an Easy Checkout flow MUST query the sender's PayID Discovery server to 
obtain a PayID Easy Checkout URL. PayID servers that wish to enable PayID Easy
Checkout MUST include a JRD Link conforming to the definition in the [JRD section](#payid-easy-checkout-jrds) of this paper 
in all PayID Easy Checkout Discovery responses.

Payment receivers SHOULD implement fallback measures to complete a checkout flow if a user's wallet does not support PayID Easy Checkout.

The following steps describe how a PayID client can query a PayID server to obtain a PayID Easy Checkout URL. 

### Step 1: Assemble PayID Easy Checkout Discovery URL
The process of assembling a PayID Discovery URL is defined in section 4.1.1 of [PAYID-DISCOVERY][], and is
the same as for this protocol.

### Step 2: Query PayID Easy Checkout Discovery URL
Querying the PayID Discovery URL is defined in section 4.1.2 of [PAYID-DISCOVERY][], and is performed
in the same way as this protocol.

Clients SHOULD implement fallback measures to complete checkout if the PayID Easy Checkout Discovery query fails.

### Step 3: Parse PayID Easy Checkout Metadata

> If PayID Easy Checkout is supported, a PayID Discovery server MUST respond with an HTTP status code `200` and a JSON payload

Reviewer: Couldn't you issue a redirect as well to another PayID Discovery server?

Author: Currently, the spec doesn't allow it, although it could.  I'm not really sure what the use case would be (I think I've advocated for removing it from the PayID Discovery spec) for delegating to another PayID Discovery Server.  I think we should restrict easy checkout discovery responses to Easy Checkout URL links until there is a need for more advanced delegation.  If/when that time comes, we can always add it to this spec, or define a new JRD link type in a new spec

Reviewer 2: Currently, Interactive PayID Discovery only supports delegation on a whole-domain basis via [this link-relation](https://github.com/payid-org/rfcs/blob/master/dist/spec/payid-discovery.txt#L565).

Interactive-mode PayID DIscovery also [unintentionally makes a redirect a failure mode](https://github.com/payid-org/rfcs/blob/master/dist/spec/payid-discovery.txt#L406). Def something to revisit if Discovery becomes widely used.

            {
                "rel" : "https://payid.org/ns/payid-easy-checkout/1.0",
                "href": "https://wallet.com/checkout"
            }
        ]
     }
     
A PayID Discovery client MUST parse this response to find the PayID Easy Checkout Link. 
If the JRD returned from the PayID Discovery query does not contain a 
PayID Easy Checkout Link in its 'links' collection, PayID Easy Checkout is considered to have failed.
Once a PayID Easy Checkout URL has been obtained from the PayID Easy Checkout Link, 
PayID Easy Checkout Discovery is considered to be complete. 

## PayID Easy Checkout URL Assembly
A PayID Easy Checkout URL represents the resource on a wallet that can
be used by a sender to complete a payment. However, before directing a payer to their sending client, the payment receiver
MUST append all of the query parameters defined in the [following section](#payid-easy-checkout-url-query-parameters).

Once a PayID Easy Checkout URL is assembled, PayID Easy Checkout is considered to be complete.

### PayID Easy Checkout URL Query Parameters
This specification defines several query parameter names and corresponding datatypes which MUST be added to the

> PayID Easy Checkout URL before redirecting a payer to their wallet client. The PayID Easy Checkout URL SHOULD be parsed 

Reviewer: Why is the reciever's adding the query params a MUST, but the wallet parsing them is only a SHOULD?

Author: The query params are meant to be the lowest common denominator for wallets so that PayID Easy Checkout clients (merchants) don't need to handle different logic for different wallets, hence the MUST.  Wallets parsing them don't necessarily need to use all of the params. For example, if you are paying with Xumm, your Xumm app probably doesnt need to look at `paymentNetwork`, since it's only capable of sending over XRPL.  Another example - Imagine you want to donate to a charity with Easy Checkout.  The charity might have a "suggested" donation amount, which they could put in the URL, but you could override that in your wallet if you wanted to send less or more.  

Bottom line: we want to provide enough info for all wallets to be able to send a transaction, but this protocol doesn't really care what individual wallets do with that information.

to complete their transaction.

## Example Usage
This section shows a non-normative example of PayID Easy Checkout between a hypothetical merchant and payer. The merchant
accepts payments using the PayID pay$merchant.com, and the payer controls the PayID alice$wallet.com.

### PayID Easy Checkout Initiation
In this example, the payer might place some items in an online shopping cart on the merchant's web-site, then choose
to checkout.  The merchant would then render a form asking for the payer's PayID, as well as a "Checkout with PayID"
button.  Once the payer inputs their PayID `alice$wallet.com` and clicks the "Checkout with PayID" button, the merchant
begins the PayID Easy Checkout flow.

### PayID Easy Checkout Wallet Discovery
The merchant UI would first assemble the PayID Easy Checkout URL as defined in [PayID Easy Checkout Discovery](#payid-easy-checkout-discovery),
yielding the URL `https://wallet.com/.well-known/webfinger?resource=payid%3Aalice%24wallet.com`. 
The merchant UI would then [query the assembled URL](#step-2-query-payid-easy-checkout-discovery-url).

The HTTP request in this example would look like this:
    

>     GET /.well-known/webfinger?resource=payid%3Aalice%24wallet.com

Reviewer: So is the resource officially `payid:alice$wallet.com`, and not just `alice$wallet.com`?

Author: yeah, see [PayID URI](https://github.com/payid-org/rfcs/blob/master/dist/spec/payid-uri.txt)

    Host: wallet.com
    
If the payer's PayID server has enabled PayID Easy Checkout in their wallet, the server would respond with something like this:
     
     HTTP/1.1 200 OK
     Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
     Content-Type: application/jrd+json

     {
       "subject" : "payid:alice$wallet.com",
       "links" :
       [
         {  

>            "rel": "https://payid.org/ns/payid-easy-checkout/1.0",

Reviewer: I see 1.0 here as the version, but what happens if you have "1.1" link?

The client would look for the `1.0` link, and not be able to find it, even though `1.1` should be backwards-compatible, right?

Author: Honestly not sure why we have the version in here (or in PayID Discovery). @sappenin thoughts?

Reviewer 2: It depends on what `1.1` would mean. Because we can't know that, I think of this as just an identifier string that's globally unique (and in order to be globally unique, we decided to preemptively add the version in there).

     {
        "subject": "payid:alice$wallet.com",
        "links": [
            {
                "rel" : "https://payid.org/ns/payid-easy-checkout-uri/1.0",
                "href": "https://wallet.com/checkout"
            }
        ]
     }
     
A PayID Easy Checkout client MUST parse this response to find the PayID Easy Checkout Link. 
If the JRD returned from the PayID Discovery query does not contain a 
PayID Easy Checkout Link in its 'links' collection, PayID Easy Checkout is considered to have failed.
Once a PayID Easy Checkout URL has been obtained from the PayID Easy Checkout Link, 
PayID Easy Checkout Discovery is considered to be complete. 

## PayID Easy Checkout URL Assembly
A PayID Easy Checkout URL represents the resource on a wallet that can
be used by a payer to complete a payment. However, before directing a payer to their wallet, the recipient
MUST append all of the query parameters defined in the [following section](#payid-easy-checkout-url-query-parameters).

Once a PayID Easy Checkout URL is assembled, PayID Easy Checkout is considered to be complete.

### PayID Easy Checkout URL Query Parameters

> This specification defines several query parameter names and corresponding datatypes which MUST be added to the

Reviewer 3: Are all the following fields MUST?

Author: Yes.  We decided that these fields (and any others that may come in subsequent versions of the spec) are the lowest common denominator that any given wallet would need to populate a transaction, so receivers (merchants) have to include all of them for every wallet

|----------------|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
    
When adding values into a URI 'query' part as defined by
[RFC3986][], values with characters outside the character set allowed by query parameters in [RFC3986][]
MUST be percent or otherwise encoded.

Protocols MAY define additional query parameter names and syntax rules, but MUST NOT
change the meaning of the variables specified in this document.

For example:

    Input:    alice$wallet.com
              amount=10
              receiverPayId=pay$merchant.com
              assetCode=XRP
              assetScale=6
              network=XRPL
              nextUrl=https://merchant.com/thankyou
    PayID Easy Checkout URL: https://wallet.com/checkout
    Output:   https://wallet.com/checkout?amount=100000&receiverPayId=payid%2Apay%24merchant.com&assetCode=XRP&assetScale=6&paymentNetwork=XRPL&nextUrl=https://merchant.com/thankyou

# PayID Easy Checkout JRDs
This section defines the PayID Easy Checkout Link, which conforms to section 4.4 of the

> Webfinger RFC.  In order for a PayID Discovery Server to enable PayID Easy Checkout, a PayID Discovery query to the server

Reviewer 3: Reference to Webfinger RFC?

#### Correlating a Payment to an Invoice
Merchants and non-profits will often times need to correlate discrete layer 1 payments to invoice or transaction entities
in the merchants' native systems. The merchant in this example may have an invoice tracking system, on which an invoice
gets created for the goods that the payer is buying with a unique identifier of `1045464`. A common practice for correlating
layer 1 payments to a specific transaction or invoice is to accept payments on a different layer 1 address for each invoice
so that the merchant can listen for payments into that address and tie the payment to the invoice.  However, because
the PayID Easy Checkout URL only provides the receiver's PayID, there is currently no way to associate the address that
is given to the payer to the invoice.

In order to accomplish this, a merchant could provide a unique PayID containing the invoice identifier 
for each PayID Easy Checkout transaction. In this example, the merchant would first associate a payment address with the
invoice ID, and would then redirect the payer to their wallet with the `receiverPayId` query parameter set to `pay-1045464$merchant.com`.

> When the merchant PayID Discovery Server receives a query for the address associated with that PayID, they could return the previously

Reviewer 3: PayID discovery server or PayID server?

Author: Good catch.  Find and replace got me this time

stored payment address. When the merchant receives a payment to that address, they can then associate the layer 1 payment
with the invoice.

### Redirect Payer to Their Wallet
Once the merchant UI populates the required query parameters in the URL template, the merchant UI redirects the payer to 
the Redirect URL so that the payer can confirm the payment.

### Payer Confirms Payment
After the payer clicks the "Pay with PayID" button the merchant's UI, and the merchant performs the previous steps,
the payer will be redirected to the Redirect URL, which is a front end resource of the wallet. The wallet UI can
read the query parameters from the Redirect URL and render a confirmation page or modal with all of the required fields
pre-populated.

> Once the payer confirms the payment, the wallet would perform a PayID address lookup on the "receiverPayId" query

Reviewer 3: Is there another "confirm" button here?
Or
Is this where "Pay with PayID" button is pressed?

Author: "Pay with PayID" is the button you press on the merchant's site.  "Confirm" is what you would see in your wallet.

    PAYID-DISCOVERY:
      title: "PayID Discovery"
      author:
        ins: D. Fuelling
        fullname: David Fuelling

informative:
    RFC5988:

--- note_Feedback

This specification is a draft proposal, and is part of the [PayID Protocol](https://payid.org/) initiative. Feedback related to this document should be sent in the form of a Github issue at: https://github.com/payid-org/rfcs/issues.
 
--- abstract
This specification formalizes how a payment recipient, such as a merchant or a non-profit, can automatically 
initiate a payment from a payer using only the payer's PayID. 

--- middle

# Terminology

This protocol can be referred to as the `PayID Easy Checkout Protocol`. It uses the following terminology:
   
* PayID Easy Checkout Client: A client that queries a PayID Discovery Server using the PayID Discovery Protocol as defined in [PAYID-DISCOVERY][] and that assembles a PayID Easy Checkout URL.
* PayID Discovery Server: An endpoint that returns a PayID Discovery JRD conforming to the PayID Discovery Protocol as defined in [PAYID-DISCOVERY][].
* Recipient: An individual or entity receiving a payment (e.g., e-commerce merchant, charity).

> * Payer: An individual or entity originating a payment to a `recipient`.

Reviewer 2: I vote we use `Sender` here (and throughout the RFC) instead of `Payer`. 

1) It's kind of a mouthful to say, "PayID Payer".
2) When I say, "The PayID Payer pays the recipient..." I find this awkward. Senders & Receivers go together, and "Payer and Payee" go together. However, "payer and Recipient" don't really go together.

Any strong feelings here?

Author: Tomato, tomato.  Guess that saying doesn't really translate well in text.... anyway, no strong feelings, Sender sounds good to me.

* Wallet: A device or application that holds funds (may be a non-custodial wallet).
* PayID Easy Checkout URL: A URL that is the result of the PayID Easy Checkout protocol; can be used to redirect a client to a wallet corresponding to a particular PayID as defined in [PAYID-URI][].

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119][] and [RFC9174][].

# Introduction

The PayID Easy Checkout Protocol is a minimal protocol that allows a recipient (e.g., an online merchant or a charity) to

> request a payment from a payer using only the payer's PayID as defined in [PAYID-URI][]. Implementations

Author: Aanchal suggested we reference PAYID-URI here

> request a payment from a payer using only the payer's PayID as defined in [PAYID-URI][]. Implementations

Reviewer 2: Cool, no strong feeling from me. Resolving this one.

of this protocol require little to no server-side engineering efforts, while creating a seamless and uniform
user experience for payers.

The main focus of the protocol is on PayID Easy Checkout Discovery, which defines how a PayID Easy Checkout Client can 
use a PayID to retrieve a PayID Easy Checkout URL which represents a resource that the payer's digital wallet can use to initiate 
a payment to the merchant. 

Though the [appendix](#appendix) of this specification provides an example usage of a 
PayID Easy Checkout URL using Web Redirects, supplemental RFCs are needed to define the different ways in which a PayID
client can utilize a PayID Easy Checkout URL.

# PayID Easy Checkout Protocol
The PayID Easy Checkout Protocol can be used to facilitate an end-to-end checkout flow between a payment recipient, such
as an online merchant, and a payer via a sending client, such as a wallet.

The protocol is comprised of two parts:

1. PayID Easy Checkout Discovery
2. PayID Easy Checkout URL Assembly

## PayID Easy Checkout Discovery

> PayID Easy Checkout Discovery extends [PAYID-DISCOVERY][] by defining a new link in the PayID metadata JRD

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PayID Easy Checkout Discovery extends [PAYID-DISCOVERY][] by defining a new link relation in the PayID metadata JRD
```

> returned by a PayID Discovery query. This link, defined in the [JRD section](#payid-easy-checkout-jrds) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
returned by a PayID Discovery query. This link relation, defined in the [JRD](#payid-easy-checkout-jrds) section
```

> of this specification, includes the PayID Easy Checkout URL representing a resource on the wallet which can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of this specification, includes the URL on the payer's wallet that can
```

> be used to complete a payment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
be used to initiate a payment.
```

> Recipients who wish to initiate an Easy Checkout flow MUST query the sender's PayID Discovery Server to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Recipients who wish to initiate an Easy Checkout flow MUST first query the sender's PayID Discovery Server to 
```

> obtain a PayID Easy Checkout URL. PayID Discovery Servers that wish to enable PayID Easy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
obtain a PayID Easy Checkout URL. Therefore, PayID Discovery Servers that wish to enable PayID Easy
```

> Checkout MUST include a JRD Link conforming to the definition in the [JRD section](#payid-easy-checkout-jrds) of this document

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Checkout MUST include an Easy Checkout JRD Link 
```

We already say, "Conforming to the JRD section of this document" above - I don't think we need to keep repeating that.

in all PayID Easy Checkout Discovery responses.

> Recipients SHOULD implement fallback measures to complete a checkout flow if a payer's wallet does not support PayID Easy Checkout.

Reviewer 2: I still find this sentence to be obvious/redundant.

:)

Author: You could say that about this whole spec lol.  For completeness sake, I think this still makes sense to include.

The following steps describe how a PayID Easy Checkout Client can query a PayID Discovery Server to obtain a PayID Easy Checkout URL.

### Step 1: Assemble PayID Easy Checkout Discovery URL

> The process of assembling a PayID Discovery URL is defined in section 4.1.1 of [PAYID-DISCOVERY][], and is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The process of assembling a PayID Discovery URL is defined in section 4.1.1 of [PAYID-DISCOVERY][].
```

> the same as for this protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

### Step 2: Query PayID Easy Checkout Discovery URL

> Querying the PayID Discovery URL is defined in section 4.1.2 of [PAYID-DISCOVERY][], and is performed

Reviewer 2: The process of querying the PayID Discovery URL is defined in section 4.1.2 of [PAYID-DISCOVERY][].

> in the same way as this protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Clients SHOULD implement fallback measures to complete checkout if the PayID Easy Checkout Discovery query fails.

### Step 3: Parse PayID Easy Checkout Metadata

> If PayID Easy Checkout is supported, a PayID Discovery server MUST respond with an HTTP status code `200` and a JSON payload

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If PayID Easy Checkout is supported, a PayID Discovery server MUST respond to discovery requests with an HTTP status code of `200` and a JSON payload
```

> containing a JSON Resource Descriptor (JRD) that contains a link conforming to the [JRD section](#payid-easy-checkout-jrds) of this document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
containing a JRD with an Easy Checkout link relation.
```

For example, a PayID Discovery Server might respond to a PayID Discovery query with the following payload:

     {
        "subject": "payid:alice$wallet.com",
        "links": [
            {
                "rel" : "https://payid.org/ns/payid-easy-checkout-uri/1.0",
                "href": "https://wallet.com/checkout"
            }
        ]
     }
     
A PayID Easy Checkout client MUST parse this response to find the PayID Easy Checkout Link. 
If the JRD returned from the PayID Discovery query does not contain a 
PayID Easy Checkout Link in its 'links' collection, PayID Easy Checkout is considered to have failed.

> Once a PayID Easy Checkout URL has been obtained from the PayID Easy Checkout Link, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

However, if a PayID Easy Checkout URL can been obtained from the PayID Easy Checkout Link, 
```

PayID Easy Checkout Discovery is considered to be complete. 

## PayID Easy Checkout URL Assembly
A PayID Easy Checkout URL represents the resource on a wallet that can
be used by a payer to complete a payment. However, before directing a payer to their wallet, the recipient
MUST append all of the query parameters defined in the [following section](#payid-easy-checkout-url-query-parameters).

Once a PayID Easy Checkout URL is assembled, PayID Easy Checkout is considered to be complete.

### PayID Easy Checkout URL Query Parameters
This specification defines several query parameter names and corresponding datatypes which MUST be added to the
PayID Easy Checkout URL before redirecting a payer to their wallet. The PayID Easy Checkout URL SHOULD be parsed 
by the wallet in order to retrieve any values set by the recipient. It is RECOMMENDED that wallets use these 
values to pre-populate a payment transaction.
    
| Name           | Type             | Description                                                          |
|----------------|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | amount         | integer          | The amount that should be sent by the payer to the recipient         |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| amount         | integer          | The amount that should be sent by the payer to the recipient.        |
```

> | receiverPayId  | string           | The [PAYID-URI][] of the receiver                           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| receiverPayId  | string           | The [PAYID-URI][] of the receiver.                           |
```

> | assetCode      | string           | The currency code that denominates the amount as defined in [PAYID-PROTOCOL][] |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| assetCode      | string           | The currency code that denominates the amount as defined in [PAYID-PROTOCOL][].|
```

> | assetScale     | short            | Defines how many units make up one regular unit of the assetCode     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| assetScale     | short            | Defines how many units make up one regular unit of the assetCode.     |
```

| paymentNetwork | string           | The payment network, as defined in [PAYID-PROTOCOL][], that the sender should use to send a payment. |

> | nextUrl        | HTTP Url string  | A URL that the sender's wallet can navigate a sender to after the sender completes a payment  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| nextUrl        | HTTP Url string  | A URL that the sender's wallet can navigate a sender to after the sender completes a payment.  |
```

|----------------|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
    
When adding values into a URI 'query' part as defined by
[RFC3986][], values with characters outside the character set allowed by query parameters in [RFC3986][]
MUST be percent or otherwise encoded.

Protocols MAY define additional query parameter names and syntax rules, but MUST NOT
change the meaning of the variables specified in this document.

For example:

    Input:    alice$wallet.com
              amount=10
              receiverPayId=pay$merchant.com
              assetCode=XRP
              assetScale=6
              network=XRPL
              nextUrl=https://merchant.com/thankyou
    PayID Easy Checkout URL: https://wallet.com/checkout

>     Output:   https://wallet.com/checkout?amount=100000&receiverPayId=payid%2Apay%24merchant.com&assetCode=XRP&assetScale=6&paymentNetwork=XRPL&nextUrl=https://merchant.com/thankyou

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Output:   https://wallet.com/checkout?amount=100000&receiverPayId=payid%2Apay%24merchant.com&assetCode=XRP&assetScale=6&paymentNetwork=XRPL&nextUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmerchant.com%2Fthankyou
```

# PayID Easy Checkout JRDs

> This section defines the PayID Easy Checkout Link, which conforms to section 4.4 of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section defines the PayID Easy Checkout Link Relation, which conforms to section 4.4 of
```

> [Webfinger RFC][RFC7033].  In order for a PayID Discovery Server to enable PayID Easy Checkout, a PayID Discovery query to the server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Webfinger][RFC7033].
```

This section should only define the link-relation for the JRD. The `In order for a PayID Discovery Server to enable PayID Easy Checkout, a PayID Discovery query to the server...` is already defined above, and should be struck.

> MUST return a JRD containing a PayID Easy Checkout Link.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

The Link MUST include the Link Relation Type defined in [PayID Easy Checkout URL](#iana-considerations) in the object's 'rel' field.
The Link MUST also include a PayID Easy Checkout URL in the 'href' field of the link.

    * 'rel': `https://payid.org/ns/payid-easy-checkout-uri/1.0`

>     * 'href': A PayID Easy Checkout URL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * 'href': {A PayID Easy Checkout URL}
```

The following is an example of a PayID Easy Checkout Link:

    {
        "rel": "https://payid.org/ns/payid-easy-checkout-uri/1.0",
        "href": "https://wallet.com/checkout"
    }

# Security Considerations
Various security considerations should be taken into account for PayID
Easy Checkout.

The security considerations for PayID Easy Checkout Discovery are discussed in 
section 6 of [PAYID-DISCOVERY][].

## PayID Easy Checkout Redirection URI Manipulation

> When a payer uses the resource located at the PayID Easy Checkout URL, a hijacker could manipulate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a payer uses the resource located at the PayID Easy Checkout URL, an attacker could manipulate
```

> the data encoded in the URL to trick the sender into sending a payment to a different PayID than was originally

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the data encoded in the URL to trick the payer into sending a payment to a different PayID than was originally
```

Ignore this if we decide to go with "sender" in the RFC.

> requested, or manipulate other points of PayID Easy Checkout data to trick the sender. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
requested, or manipulate other parts of PayID Easy Checkout data to trick the sender. 
```

> Additionally, if a hijacker gained access to the merchant client, they could replace the PayID Easy Checkout URL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, if an attacker gains access to the merchant application, an attacker could replace the PayID Easy Checkout URL
```

> for the purposes of a phishing attack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to execute a phishing or other attack.
```

> Current work on the PayID Protocol and its extensions may prove useful in mitigating these risks. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Author: shameless plug for EZ Subscriptions

## Access Control
As with all web resources, access to the PayID Discovery resource could
require authentication. See section 6 of [RFC7033][] for Access Control
considerations.

Furthermore, it is RECOMMENDED that PayID Discovery Servers only expose PayID Easy Checkout URLs

> which resolve to a protected resource.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which resolve to a protected resource (e.g., by logging into a wallet) before allowing access.
```

# IANA Considerations
  ## New Link Relation Types
  This document defines the following Link relation type per [RFC7033][].
  See section 3 for examples of each type of Link.
  
  ### PayID Easy Checkout URL
  
    * Relation Type ('rel'): `https://payid.org/ns/payid-easy-checkout-uri/1.0`
    * Media Type: `application/jrd+json`
    * Description: PayID Easy Checkout URL, version 1.0

# Acknowledgments

# Appendix

## Motivation
The PayID Easy Checkout Protocol aims to enable a consistent user experience for payers paying for goods
or services by standardizing the interaction between merchants/non-profits and customer/donor wallets.
Given the ability to assign arbitrary metadata to a PayID as defined in [PayID-Discovery][], there is an opportunity
to standardize the set of interactions between merchant and payer, specifically the process by which a merchant
directs a payer to their digital wallet to complete a payment.

> We believe this protocol will enable an improved paying experience by reducing the number

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The intention of this protocol is to enable an improved paying experience by reducing the number
```

Clients wishing to adopt this pattern should only need to implement UI-level changes in order to make the flow function 
as intended, which may aid in expanding overall adoption, further enhancing the protocol's user experience benefits. 

### Design Goals

#### Minimal effort for the Payer

In order for a payer to checkout using the PayID Easy Checkout protocol, the payer only needs to provide a merchant
with their PayID Easy Checkout enabled PayID.

#### No New Server-Side Software

Apart from a PayID Discovery compliant PayID Discovery Server, The PayID Easy Checkout Protocol does not require server-side 
software to be run by either the payer or merchant for a payment. The PayID Discovery Server is capable of providing details 
of where to send the payer via the PayID Discovery Protocol. Assuming the wallet used by the payer has implemented 
support in their UI for the PayID Easy Checkout Protocol, the payer can be redirected to their wallet 
to complete their transaction.

## Example Usage
This section shows a non-normative example of PayID Easy Checkout between a hypothetical merchant (recipient) and payer. The merchant

> accepts payments using the PayID pay$merchant.com, and the payer controls the PayID alice$wallet.com.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
accepts payments using the PayID pay$merchant.example.com, and the payer controls the PayID alice$wallet.example.com.
```

In examples, we should probably use URLs that conform to [RFC-6761](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6761#section-6.5) to prevent accidental usage.

### PayID Easy Checkout Initiation
In this example, the payer might place some items in an online shopping cart on the merchant's web-site, then choose
to checkout.  The merchant would then render a form asking for the payer's PayID, as well as a "Checkout with PayID"

> button.  Once the payer inputs their PayID `alice$wallet.com` and clicks the "Checkout with PayID" button, the merchant

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
button.  Once the payer inputs their PayID `alice$wallet.example.com` and clicks the "Checkout with PayID" button, the merchant
```

begins the PayID Easy Checkout flow.

### PayID Easy Checkout Wallet Discovery
The merchant UI would first assemble the PayID Easy Checkout URL as defined in [PayID Easy Checkout Discovery](#payid-easy-checkout-discovery),

> yielding the URL `https://wallet.com/.well-known/webfinger?resource=payid%3Aalice%24wallet.com`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
yielding the URL `https://wallet.example.com/.well-known/webfinger?resource=payid%3Aalice%24wallet.example.com`. 
```

The merchant UI would then [query the assembled URL](#step-2-query-payid-easy-checkout-discovery-url).

The HTTP request in this example would look like this:
    

>     GET /.well-known/webfinger?resource=payid%3Aalice%24wallet.com

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    GET /.well-known/webfinger?resource=payid%3Aalice%24wallet.example.com
```

>     Host: wallet.com

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Host: wallet.example.com
```

    
If the payer's PayID Discovery Server has enabled PayID Easy Checkout in their wallet, the server would respond with something like this:
     
     HTTP/1.1 200 OK
     Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
     Content-Type: application/jrd+json

     {

>        "subject" : "payid:alice$wallet.com",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       "subject" : "payid:alice$wallet.example.com",
```

       "links" :
       [
         {  
           "rel": "https://payid.org/ns/payid-easy-checkout-uri/1.0",

>            "template": "https://wallet.com/checkout"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
           "template": "https://wallet.example.com/checkout"
```

         }
       ]
     }

### Assemble PayID Easy Checkout URL with Query Parameters
The merchant UI would parse the PayID Discovery response and iterate over the 'links' collection to find the link with 
the Relation Type of "https://payid.org/ns/payid-easy-checkout-uri/1.0". The merchant UI would then add all of the query
parameters defined in [PayID Easy Checkout URL Query Parameters](#payid-easy-checkout-url-query-parameters) to the URL included in the JRD Link. 
One query parameter of note is the "nextUrl" parameter, which allows the merchant to supply a redirect or callback URL 
for the sender's wallet to call once the payer has confirmed the payment. In this example, the merchant would like 
to display a "Thank You" page, and replaces `{nextUrl}` with `https://merchant.com/thankyou`.

#### Correlating a Payment to an Invoice

> Merchants and non-profits will often times need to correlate discrete layer 1 payments to invoice or transaction entities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Merchants and non-profits will often need to correlate discrete layer-1 payments to an invoice or transaction entity
```

in the merchants' native systems. The merchant in this example may have an invoice tracking system, on which an invoice

> gets created for the goods that the payer is buying with a unique identifier of `1045464`. A common practice for correlating

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
gets created for the goods that the payer is buying, for example an invoice with a unique identifier of `1045464`. A common practice for correlating
```

> layer 1 payments to a specific transaction or invoice is to accept payments on a different layer 1 address for each invoice

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
layer 1 payments to a specific transaction or invoice is to accept payments on a different layer-1 address for each invoice
```

> so that the merchant can listen for payments into that address and tie the payment to the invoice.  However, because

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
so that the merchant can listen for payments into that address and correlate the payment to the invoice.  However, because
```

the PayID Easy Checkout URL only provides the receiver's PayID, there is currently no way to associate the address that
is given to the payer to the invoice.

In order to accomplish this, a merchant could provide a unique PayID containing the invoice identifier 
for each PayID Easy Checkout transaction. In this example, the merchant would first associate a payment address with the
invoice ID, and would then redirect the payer to their wallet with the `receiverPayId` query parameter set to `pay-1045464$merchant.com`.

> When the merchant PayID Server receives a query for the address associated with that PayID, they could return the previously

Reviewer 2: I think the point here not really that there's something magical about the invoiceId being in the PayId itself -- the important part is that the merchant generates a unique L1 address and watches the L1 address for a payment to attach to a particular invoice. The fact that `1045464` is in the PayID doesn't add value to anyone other than allowing the PayID to be unique on a per-invoice basis.

Author: Maybe I should be more explicit about it.  I would say that the main point _is_ that there is some identifier embedded in the PayID, which the receiver's PayID server can parse out to correlate an invoice to a unique address they generate.

> stored payment address. When the merchant receives a payment to that address, they can then associate the layer 1 payment

Reviewer 2: Another option here is to provide the invoiceId in the `nextUrl` (thought that's brittle and may not be worth mentioning).

Author: I thought about putting that in here, but seems not even worth mentioning.  That's only something I would do for a demo (maybe)

Reviewer 2: Sounds good.
